docs/src/content/docs/cli/options-reference.mdx, before:

---
title: Options Reference
description: Complete reference of all orb CLI options
sidebar:
  order: 2
---

import { Aside } from '@astrojs/starlight/components';

Complete reference of all orb command-line options.

## Usage

```
orb [OPTIONS] <URL>
```

## Request Options

| Option | Description |
|--------|-------------|
| `-X, --request <METHOD>` | HTTP method (GET, POST, PUT, DELETE, etc.). Default: GET |
| `-H, --header <HEADER>` | Add header in `Name: Value` format. Can be used multiple times |
| `-d, --data <DATA>` | Request body. Use `@filename` to read from file |
| `--json <JSON>` | Send JSON data (sets Content-Type: application/json) |
| `-F, --form <FIELD>` | Multipart form field. Use `field=@file` for file upload |

## Authentication

| Option | Description |
|--------|-------------|
| `-u, --user <USER:PASS>` | HTTP Basic authentication |
| `--bearer <TOKEN>` | Bearer token authentication |

## Cookies

| Option | Description |
|--------|-------------|
| `-b, --cookie <DATA>` | Send cookies. Use `@filename` to read from file |
| `-c, --cookie-jar <FILE>` | Save cookies to file (Netscape format) |

## Output

| Option | Description |
|--------|-------------|
| `-o, --output <FILE>` | Write response body to file |
| `-i, --include` | Include response headers in output |
| `-I, --head` | Show response headers only (HEAD request) |
| `-v, --verbose` | Verbose mode (show request/response details) |
| `-s, --silent` | Silent mode (suppress all output except body) |
| `-w, --write-out` | Show statistics (http_code, size, timing) |
| `-#, --progress` | Show progress bar |

## TLS/SSL

| Option | Description |
|--------|-------------|
| `-k, --insecure` | Skip certificate verification |
| `--cert <FILE>` | Client certificate file (PEM) |
| `--key <FILE>` | Client certificate key file (PEM) |
| `--cacert <FILE>` | CA certificate file (PEM) |

## Protocol

| Option | Description |
|--------|-------------|
| `--http1.1` | Force HTTP/1.1 |
| `--http2` | Force HTTP/2 |
| `--http3` | Force HTTP/3 (QUIC) |

## Compression

| Option | Description |
|--------|-------------|
| `--compressed` | Accept and decompress responses (zstd, br, gzip, deflate) |
| `--compress-algo <ALGO>` | Request specific algorithm: gzip, deflate, brotli, zstd |

## Timeouts & Redirects

| Option | Description |
|--------|-------------|
| `--connect-timeout <SECS>` | Connection timeout in seconds. Default: 10 |
| `-m, --max-time <SECS>` | Maximum total request time in seconds |
| `-L, --location` | Follow redirects |
| `--max-redirs <NUM>` | Maximum redirects to follow. Default: 10 |

## Network

| Option | Description |
|--------|-------------|
| `-x, --proxy <URL>` | Proxy URL (http:// or socks5://) |
| `--connect-to <RULE>` | Override DNS: `HOST1:PORT1:HOST2:PORT2` |

## Headers

| Option | Description |
|--------|-------------|
| `-A, --user-agent <STRING>` | Custom User-Agent header |
| `-e, --referer <URL>` | Set Referer header |

## WebSocket

| Option | Description |
|--------|-------------|
| `--ws-message <MSG>` | Send WebSocket message and exit |

## Option Details

### `-X, --request`

Specify the HTTP method. Can be any valid method:

```bash
orb -X POST https://example.com
orb -X PUT https://example.com
orb -X DELETE https://example.com
orb -X PATCH https://example.com
orb -X OPTIONS https://example.com
```

### `-H, --header`

Add custom headers. Can be used multiple times:

```bash
orb -H "Authorization: Bearer token" \
    -H "Accept: application/json" \
    -H "X-Custom: value" \
    https://example.com
```

### `-d, --data`

Send request body data. Sets `Content-Type: application/x-www-form-urlencoded`:

```bash
# Inline data
orb -d "key=value&other=data" https://example.com

# From file
orb -d @payload.txt https://example.com
```

<Aside type="note">
Conflicts with `--json` and `-F`.
</Aside>

### `--json`

Send JSON data. Sets `Content-Type: application/json`:

```bash
orb --json '{"name": "Alice"}' https://example.com
```

### `-F, --form`

Send multipart form data:

```bash
# Text field
orb -F "name=Alice" https://example.com

# File upload
orb -F "file=@document.pdf" https://example.com

# Multiple fields
orb -F "name=Alice" -F "avatar=@photo.jpg" https://example.com
```

### `-u, --user`

HTTP Basic authentication:

```bash
orb -u username:password https://example.com
orb -u username: https://example.com  # Empty password
```

### `--bearer`

Bearer token authentication:

```bash
orb --bearer "eyJhbGciOi..." https://example.com
```

### `-b, --cookie`

Send cookies:

```bash
# Inline cookie
orb -b "session=abc123" https://example.com

# From file (Netscape format)
orb -b @cookies.txt https://example.com
```

### `-c, --cookie-jar`

Save response cookies to file:

```bash
orb -c cookies.txt https://example.com
```

### `-o, --output`

Save response body to file:

```bash
orb -o response.json https://api.example.com
orb -o file.zip https://example.com/file.zip
```

### `-v, --verbose`

Show detailed request/response information:

```bash
orb -v https://example.com
```

### `-s, --silent`

Suppress all output except response body:

```bash
orb -s https://example.com > response.txt
```

### `-w, --write-out`

Show request statistics:

```bash
orb -w https://example.com
# Output: http_code: 200, size_download: 1234, time_total: 0.456
```

### `-k, --insecure`

Skip TLS certificate verification:

```bash
orb -k https://self-signed.example.com
```

### `--cert` and `--key`

Client certificate for mTLS:

```bash
# Combined file
orb --cert combined.pem https://example.com

# Separate files
orb --cert client.pem --key client-key.pem https://example.com
```

### `--cacert`

Custom CA certificate:

```bash
orb --cacert ca.pem https://internal.example.com
```

### `--http1.1`, `--http2`, `--http3`

Force specific HTTP protocol version:

```bash
orb --http1.1 https://example.com
orb --http2 https://example.com
orb --http3 https://example.com  # Requires server support
```

### `--compressed`

Accept compressed responses:

```bash
orb --compressed https://example.com
# Sends: Accept-Encoding: zstd, br, gzip, deflate
```

### `--connect-timeout` and `-m, --max-time`

Set timeouts:

```bash
orb --connect-timeout 5 -m 30 https://example.com
```

### `-L, --location`

Follow redirects:

```bash
orb -L https://httpbin.org/redirect/3
orb -L --max-redirs 5 https://example.com
```

### `-x, --proxy`

Use a proxy:

```bash
orb -x http://proxy:8080 https://example.com
orb -x socks5://proxy:1080 https://example.com
```

### `--connect-to`

Override DNS routing:

```bash
orb --connect-to "api.example.com:443:localhost:8443" https://api.example.com
```

### `--ws-message`

Send a WebSocket message:

```bash
orb wss://echo.websocket.org --ws-message "Hello!"
```

Commit message:

fix: prevent Authorization headers in redirects

docs/src/content/docs/cli/options-reference.mdx, after:

---
title: Options Reference
description: Complete reference of all orb CLI options
sidebar:
  order: 2
---

import { Aside } from '@astrojs/starlight/components';

Complete reference of all orb command-line options.

## Usage

```
orb [OPTIONS] <URL>
```

## Request Options

| Option | Description |
|--------|-------------|
| `-X, --request <METHOD>` | HTTP method (GET, POST, PUT, DELETE, etc.). Default: GET |
| `-H, --header <HEADER>` | Add header in `Name: Value` format. Can be used multiple times |
| `-d, --data <DATA>` | Request body. Use `@filename` to read from file |
| `--json <JSON>` | Send JSON data (sets Content-Type: application/json) |
| `-F, --form <FIELD>` | Multipart form field. Use `field=@file` for file upload |

## Authentication

| Option | Description |
|--------|-------------|
| `-u, --user <USER:PASS>` | HTTP Basic authentication |
| `--bearer <TOKEN>` | Bearer token authentication |

## Cookies

| Option | Description |
|--------|-------------|
| `-b, --cookie <DATA>` | Send cookies. Use `@filename` to read from file |
| `-c, --cookie-jar <FILE>` | Save cookies to file (Netscape format) |

## Output

| Option | Description |
|--------|-------------|
| `-o, --output <FILE>` | Write response body to file |
| `-i, --include` | Include response headers in output |
| `-I, --head` | Show response headers only (HEAD request) |
| `-v, --verbose` | Verbose mode (show request/response details) |
| `-s, --silent` | Silent mode (suppress all output except body) |
| `-w, --write-out` | Show statistics (http_code, size, timing) |
| `-#, --progress` | Show progress bar |

## TLS/SSL

| Option | Description |
|--------|-------------|
| `-k, --insecure` | Skip certificate verification |
| `--cert <FILE>` | Client certificate file (PEM) |
| `--key <FILE>` | Client certificate key file (PEM) |
| `--cacert <FILE>` | CA certificate file (PEM) |

## Protocol

| Option | Description |
|--------|-------------|
| `--http1.1` | Force HTTP/1.1 |
| `--http2` | Force HTTP/2 |
| `--http3` | Force HTTP/3 (QUIC) |

## Compression

| Option | Description |
|--------|-------------|
| `--compressed` | Accept and decompress responses (zstd, br, gzip, deflate) |
| `--compress-algo <ALGO>` | Request specific algorithm: gzip, deflate, brotli, zstd |

## Timeouts & Redirects

| Option | Description |
|--------|-------------|
| `--connect-timeout <SECS>` | Connection timeout in seconds. Default: 10 |
| `-m, --max-time <SECS>` | Maximum total request time in seconds |
| `-L, --location` | Follow redirects |
| `--max-redirs <NUM>` | Maximum redirects to follow. Default: 10 |
| `--location-trusted` | Send Authorization header to different hosts on redirect |

## Network

| Option | Description |
|--------|-------------|
| `-x, --proxy <URL>` | Proxy URL (http:// or socks5://) |
| `--connect-to <RULE>` | Override DNS: `HOST1:PORT1:HOST2:PORT2` |

## Headers

| Option | Description |
|--------|-------------|
| `-A, --user-agent <STRING>` | Custom User-Agent header |
| `-e, --referer <URL>` | Set Referer header |

## WebSocket

| Option | Description |
|--------|-------------|
| `--ws-message <MSG>` | Send WebSocket message and exit |

## Option Details

### `-X, --request`

Specify the HTTP method. Can be any valid method:

```bash
orb -X POST https://example.com
orb -X PUT https://example.com
orb -X DELETE https://example.com
orb -X PATCH https://example.com
orb -X OPTIONS https://example.com
```

### `-H, --header`

Add custom headers. Can be used multiple times:

```bash
orb -H "Authorization: Bearer token" \
    -H "Accept: application/json" \
    -H "X-Custom: value" \
    https://example.com
```

### `-d, --data`

Send request body data. Sets `Content-Type: application/x-www-form-urlencoded`:

```bash
# Inline data
orb -d "key=value&other=data" https://example.com

# From file
orb -d @payload.txt https://example.com
```

<Aside type="note">
Conflicts with `--json` and `-F`.
</Aside>

### `--json`

Send JSON data. Sets `Content-Type: application/json`:

```bash
orb --json '{"name": "Alice"}' https://example.com
```

### `-F, --form`

Send multipart form data:

```bash
# Text field
orb -F "name=Alice" https://example.com

# File upload
orb -F "file=@document.pdf" https://example.com

# Multiple fields
orb -F "name=Alice" -F "avatar=@photo.jpg" https://example.com
```

### `-u, --user`

HTTP Basic authentication:

```bash
orb -u username:password https://example.com
orb -u username: https://example.com  # Empty password
```

### `--bearer`

Bearer token authentication:

```bash
orb --bearer "eyJhbGciOi..." https://example.com
```

### `-b, --cookie`

Send cookies:

```bash
# Inline cookie
orb -b "session=abc123" https://example.com

# From file (Netscape format)
orb -b @cookies.txt https://example.com
```

### `-c, --cookie-jar`

Save response cookies to file:

```bash
orb -c cookies.txt https://example.com
```

### `-o, --output`

Save response body to file:

```bash
orb -o response.json https://api.example.com
orb -o file.zip https://example.com/file.zip
```

### `-v, --verbose`

Show detailed request/response information:

```bash
orb -v https://example.com
```

### `-s, --silent`

Suppress all output except response body:

```bash
orb -s https://example.com > response.txt
```

### `-w, --write-out`

Show request statistics:

```bash
orb -w https://example.com
# Output: http_code: 200, size_download: 1234, time_total: 0.456
```

### `-k, --insecure`

Skip TLS certificate verification:

```bash
orb -k https://self-signed.example.com
```

### `--cert` and `--key`

Client certificate for mTLS:

```bash
# Combined file
orb --cert combined.pem https://example.com

# Separate files
orb --cert client.pem --key client-key.pem https://example.com
```

### `--cacert`

Custom CA certificate:

```bash
orb --cacert ca.pem https://internal.example.com
```

### `--http1.1`, `--http2`, `--http3`

Force specific HTTP protocol version:

```bash
orb --http1.1 https://example.com
orb --http2 https://example.com
orb --http3 https://example.com  # Requires server support
```

### `--compressed`

Accept compressed responses:

```bash
orb --compressed https://example.com
# Sends: Accept-Encoding: zstd, br, gzip, deflate
```

### `--connect-timeout` and `-m, --max-time`

Set timeouts:

```bash
orb --connect-timeout 5 -m 30 https://example.com
```

### `-L, --location`

Follow redirects:

```bash
orb -L https://httpbin.org/redirect/3
orb -L --max-redirs 5 https://example.com
```

### `--location-trusted`

By default, the `Authorization` header is stripped when a redirect goes to a different host. Use `--location-trusted` to preserve it:

```bash
orb -L --location-trusted --bearer token https://auth.example.com/login
```

### `-x, --proxy`

Use a proxy:

```bash
orb -x http://proxy:8080 https://example.com
orb -x socks5://proxy:1080 https://example.com
```

### `--connect-to`

Override DNS routing:

```bash
orb --connect-to "api.example.com:443:localhost:8443" https://api.example.com
```

### `--ws-message`

Send a WebSocket message:

```bash
orb wss://echo.websocket.org --ws-message "Hello!"
```
