docs/src/content/docs/cli/timeouts-redirects.mdx, before:

---
title: Timeouts & Redirects
description: Connection timeouts, request timeouts, and redirect handling
sidebar:
  order: 11
---

import { Aside } from '@astrojs/starlight/components';

## Timeouts

### Connection Timeout

Use `--connect-timeout` to set the maximum time for establishing a connection:

```bash
orb --connect-timeout 5 https://example.com
```

Default: 10 seconds

This timeout covers:
- DNS resolution
- TCP connection establishment
- TLS handshake

### Total Request Timeout

Use `-m` or `--max-time` to set the maximum total request time:

```bash
orb -m 30 https://example.com
```

This timeout covers the entire request, from start to finish, including:
- Connection establishment
- Sending the request
- Receiving the response

<Aside type="note">
If `-m` is not specified, there's no total timeout limit (but `--connect-timeout` still applies).
</Aside>

### Timeout Examples

```bash
# Quick health check - fail fast
orb --connect-timeout 2 -m 5 https://api.example.com/health

# Allow time for large download
orb -m 300 https://example.com/large-file.zip -o file.zip

# Slow server, generous timeouts
orb --connect-timeout 30 -m 120 https://slow-server.example.com
```

## Redirects

By default, orb does **not** follow HTTP redirects (3xx responses).

### Follow Redirects

Use `-L` or `--location` to follow redirects:

```bash
orb -L https://httpbin.org/redirect/3
```

This will follow up to 10 redirects by default.

### Maximum Redirects

Use `--max-redirs` to change the redirect limit:

```bash
orb -L --max-redirs 5 https://example.com
```

Default: 10 redirects

### Redirect Examples

```bash
# Follow redirects (common pattern)
orb -L https://short.url/abc

# See redirect chain with verbose
orb -v -L https://httpbin.org/redirect/3

# Limit redirects
orb -L --max-redirs 2 https://example.com
```

### Understanding Redirects

Without `-L`, a redirect returns the 3xx response:

```bash
orb -i https://httpbin.org/redirect/1
```

```
HTTP/1.1 302 Found
location: https://httpbin.org/get
```

With `-L`, the final response is returned:

```bash
orb -L -i https://httpbin.org/redirect/1
```

```
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
content-type: application/json
...
```

### Redirect Types

Orb follows these redirect status codes:
- 301 Moved Permanently
- 302 Found
- 303 See Other
- 307 Temporary Redirect
- 308 Permanent Redirect

<Aside type="caution">
Be careful with redirects when posting data. Some redirects may change the method or drop the body.
</Aside>

### Redirect Loop Protection

Orb detects redirect loops and stops:

```
Error: Too many redirects (11). Maximum is 10. Use --max-redirs to increase.
```

## Combining Timeouts and Redirects

```bash
# Follow redirects with timeouts
orb -L \
  --connect-timeout 5 \
  -m 30 \
  --max-redirs 5 \
  https://example.com

# Download with redirect following
orb -L -m 60 https://short.url/download -o file.zip
```

## Common Patterns

### API Health Check

```bash
# Quick check with short timeouts
orb --connect-timeout 2 -m 5 -s https://api.example.com/health && echo "OK"
```

### Downloading Files (Often Redirected)

```bash
# GitHub releases redirect to CDN
orb -L -o release.tar.gz \
  https://github.com/user/repo/releases/latest/download/release.tar.gz
```

### URL Shortener Resolution

```bash
# See where a short URL goes (without following)
orb -I https://bit.ly/example

# Follow to final destination
orb -L -I https://bit.ly/example
```

Commit message:

fix: prevent Authorization headers in redirects

docs/src/content/docs/cli/timeouts-redirects.mdx, after:

---
title: Timeouts & Redirects
description: Connection timeouts, request timeouts, and redirect handling
sidebar:
  order: 11
---

import { Aside } from '@astrojs/starlight/components';

## Timeouts

### Connection Timeout

Use `--connect-timeout` to set the maximum time for establishing a connection:

```bash
orb --connect-timeout 5 https://example.com
```

Default: 10 seconds

This timeout covers:
- DNS resolution
- TCP connection establishment
- TLS handshake

### Total Request Timeout

Use `-m` or `--max-time` to set the maximum total request time:

```bash
orb -m 30 https://example.com
```

This timeout covers the entire request, from start to finish, including:
- Connection establishment
- Sending the request
- Receiving the response

<Aside type="note">
If `-m` is not specified, there's no total timeout limit (but `--connect-timeout` still applies).
</Aside>

### Timeout Examples

```bash
# Quick health check - fail fast
orb --connect-timeout 2 -m 5 https://api.example.com/health

# Allow time for large download
orb -m 300 https://example.com/large-file.zip -o file.zip

# Slow server, generous timeouts
orb --connect-timeout 30 -m 120 https://slow-server.example.com
```

## Redirects

By default, orb does **not** follow HTTP redirects (3xx responses).

### Follow Redirects

Use `-L` or `--location` to follow redirects:

```bash
orb -L https://httpbin.org/redirect/3
```

This will follow up to 10 redirects by default.

### Maximum Redirects

Use `--max-redirs` to change the redirect limit:

```bash
orb -L --max-redirs 5 https://example.com
```

Default: 10 redirects

### Redirect Examples

```bash
# Follow redirects (common pattern)
orb -L https://short.url/abc

# See redirect chain with verbose
orb -v -L https://httpbin.org/redirect/3

# Limit redirects
orb -L --max-redirs 2 https://example.com
```

### Understanding Redirects

Without `-L`, a redirect returns the 3xx response:

```bash
orb -i https://httpbin.org/redirect/1
```

```
HTTP/1.1 302 Found
location: https://httpbin.org/get
```

With `-L`, the final response is returned:

```bash
orb -L -i https://httpbin.org/redirect/1
```

```
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
content-type: application/json
...
```

### Redirect Types

Orb follows these redirect status codes:
- 301 Moved Permanently
- 302 Found
- 303 See Other
- 307 Temporary Redirect
- 308 Permanent Redirect

<Aside type="caution">
Be careful with redirects when posting data. Some redirects may change the method or drop the body.
</Aside>

### Cross-Host Redirect Security

When following redirects to a **different host**, orb automatically strips the `Authorization` header to prevent credential leakage.

This protects against attacks where a malicious server redirects to a different host to steal credentials (see [CVE-2018-1000007](https://curl.se/docs/CVE-2018-1000007.html)).

Redirects to the **same host** (same scheme, hostname, and port) preserve all headers.

#### `--location-trusted`

If you trust the redirect target and need to send credentials across hosts, use `--location-trusted`:

```bash
# Sends Authorization header even on cross-host redirects
orb -L --location-trusted --bearer my-token https://auth.example.com/login
```

<Aside type="caution">
Only use `--location-trusted` when you trust all servers in the redirect chain. Without it, your credentials are protected from being sent to unexpected hosts.
</Aside>

### Redirect Loop Protection

Orb detects redirect loops and stops:

```
Error: Too many redirects (11). Maximum is 10. Use --max-redirs to increase.
```

## Combining Timeouts and Redirects

```bash
# Follow redirects with timeouts
orb -L \
  --connect-timeout 5 \
  -m 30 \
  --max-redirs 5 \
  https://example.com

# Download with redirect following
orb -L -m 60 https://short.url/download -o file.zip
```

## Common Patterns

### API Health Check

```bash
# Quick check with short timeouts
orb --connect-timeout 2 -m 5 -s https://api.example.com/health && echo "OK"
```

### Downloading Files (Often Redirected)

```bash
# GitHub releases redirect to CDN
orb -L -o release.tar.gz \
  https://github.com/user/repo/releases/latest/download/release.tar.gz
```

### URL Shortener Resolution

```bash
# See where a short URL goes (without following)
orb -I https://bit.ly/example

# Follow to final destination
orb -L -I https://bit.ly/example
```
